# RoadSafety
Android app which helps its users to prevent road accidents and to save life in case any occur. 

Problem Statement:

  Road safety is a major concern as nearly 1.3 million people die in road crahses each year and 20-50 million get injured.
  Objective is to prevent as many road crashes as possible and to "make every life count". 

Solution for Problem:

We have proposed the solution for the problem by making an android app. As we have a dataset of all the danger i.e accident prone locations with their "damage Rating". So when a person begin driving or walking he just click "start" button in the app, it starts working the app continously match the persons location with the "accident prone locations in the database". If any of the prone locations comes within the "range of 500 metres" of that person. A "voice-based warning"will be generated by the app that you will be entering into an accident prone area and all the history about that area present in the database will be played as a warning. It will help them to prevent accidents. 
Also if any registered user is exceeding speed limit then voice notification to all of the users within that range will be given warning about that person. 

Code Structure:
 -> The project is made through Android and PHP/MySQL created REST API's.
 -> We have used location and speed detection parameters for the project.
 -> Android folder consists of android code which also uses location and speed detection through mobile app.
 -> PHP/MySQL API's in API's folder recieve request parameters from android code and give response to it in JSON form.
 -> Database folder contains DB files
 
 Future Scope:
 
 We can also add many more features in that app like if a user view a case of accident while travelling he can add that location on the app with picture and we immediately provide ambulance services.

How to run and contribute:
	-> Install Android Studio.
	-> Clone the repo and open it in Android Studio.
	-> Run the application.

Instructions to use:

Screen 1: It has option of login or signup.

Screen 2/3:
2-> When clicked on login , it asks for username and password.
3-> When clicked on signup, it asks for credentials and signs you up.

Screen 4:
Main Screen opens which has a start button.
Click on this start button in the main app login to prevent life loss.

Screen 5:
It automatically detects users latitude, longitude and speed. 
If a user comes in a range of 500m of accident prone region they are given a vocal warning(TexttoSpeech) about the area and on screen the accidents are listed.
If a user is fast he is asked to slow down as well.

This we have implemented. Further we will detect if other persons are on the same area but  moving in different directions towards the same accident zone , they are issued warning.


	